#summary This page list existing known forks of CSipSimple.
#sidebar MainSideBar

= Introduction =

CSipSimple is released under GPLv3 license. 
The project is also compound of several parts and the [Licensing licensing model is complex].
A third company can decide to rely on CSipSimple source code in accordance with the [Licensing licensing rules].

This page lists these apps. And try to keep track of companies that does not respect rules.

= List of known forks =

 * ippi for android (source code is hosted on a CSipSimple branch - changes are not significant)
 * keyyoVoip for android (source code is available here : http://code.google.com/p/keyyo-mobile-android-voip/ )
 * Voxofon VoIP addon (only the addon part). (code *of the addon application* can be requested to voxofon but changes are not significant from CSipSimple).
 * Mytunu VoIP plugin (only the addon part). (code *of the addon application* can be requested to mytunu but changes are not significant from CSipSimple).
 * VoipAlot, Mobyler and some other android SIP application distributed by Finarea / Dellmont (code of applications can be requested to Dellmont).
 * Telna SIP phone client (code of applications can be requested to Telna).
 * WebsiteChat.net Live Help Chat (code will be available in csipsimple googlecode level7 branch)
 * EasyBell VoIP, smartcalls, 3gGlobal, voipcall (code source can be asked to MatrixConsultants www.matrixconsultants.com.au ).
 * Sonetel : www.sonetel.com
 * VoxMobile : Branded fork for voxmobile. You can get source code here : http://code.google.com/p/voxmobile/
 * IDPhone : Branded fork for ID Phone. You can get source code here : http://code.google.com/p/idphone/
 * OSTEL : The Security oriented fork to give security available easily for mainstream users. Wiki of the project : [https://guardianproject.info/wiki/OSTN]. The patch [https://github.com/guardianproject/OSTel/blob/master/patches/csip_with_ostel.txt]
 * Voxvalley : waiting for the way to get the source code : in progress

= List of forks that still need to confirm they correctly respect GPL license =
 * Voipon3G