#summary How to provide logs to developpers
#labels Phase-Support

== WARNING : In current devs builds you have to switch to expert settings mode to enable logging ... I will provide soon an easier way to collect logs.... ==

= Introduction =

CSipSimple is still under heavy development. If you notice a force close or an error while running the app. 
The first good reflex is to search on the Issue section if you are alone with the problem.
Then if you found nothing corresponding to your issue, you can open a new one. One thing that can do the fix of your issue quicker is to provides logs to allow developers to understand what has happened. 

= How to turn on logging on CSipSimple =

Press the menu button on the main CSipSimple view (the dialer), Choose settings, Go on User interface section, scroll down and click on "Log level". A dialog will popup. Here change the value from 1 to 4.

Go back using the back button twice.
You can now reproduce your bug (if possible) logs will now be recorded.

= How to get back the logs and what to do with the logs =

A good idea is to *NOT* share your logs on the issue section since it can contains privacy information that should not be shared.
For now you can directly send it to the main contributor (developers [ at ] csipsimple [dot] com). Or ask in your issue who you should send your log to.

To collect and send your logs, you can install and run log-collector : http://code.google.com/p/android-log-collector/ (available both on the market and on their website).
Log-collector will ask you how you want to send logs, choose mail and send it to the right contact.