#summary This page explain how to give us needed stuff if you want us to support a new hardware
#labels Phase-Support,Featured


= Introduction =

Some manufacturer rewrite the libmedia libcutils or libutils. If this is the case, specific binaries for the manufacturer will be needed.

To allow us to make a custom compilation for this kind of hardware, there is now a simple way to contribute and help us.

= Already fixed but not yet released =
If you are about to report check that your device in not in this list (are already fixed but not yet released) :
Samsung Galaxy i7500 android 1.6


= Known unsupportable devices =
 * For now, there is no way to make a build for ARMv4 devices. 
(Android NDK doesn't support that and I have to make some changes to enable it)

= How to report your libs for your unsupported hardware=

== You have a device running with android 1.6 or later (and with a mail application that support application/binary attachement configured)

 * [http://csipsimple.googlecode.com/files/MediaLibGet.apk Download the apk here].

 * Install it

 * Run it and choose send mail (use your favorite mail account). Then just click on send.

Once the lib will be compiled, you'll be notified that a new build for your hardware is available. If you don't want to be contacted for beta-testing the new build for your device, let us know in the body of the mail (before information on your android and hardware version).

== You are running android 1.5 ==

You have to use the SDK (if you have no idea of what that means, don't try to do the following instructions, just open a new issue in the bug tracker).

Launch : 
{{{
adb pull /system/lib/libmedia.so
adb pull /system/lib/libutils.so
adb pull /system/lib/libcutils.so
}}}

Open an issue on the tracker and attach these three files you just uploaded.
(You can also use an Android file manager application to save this file on your hard disk).
